Trusting data as it arise from the user input is not the best idea.
Usually you need to make sure the input can pass some specific constraints, like it needs to have specific
length, be of specific type, like a number, or be present at all.
Validating the incoming data is very easy and convenient in Laravel, the request object.
Passed as the storm heated argument has to validate methods.
There are plenty of available validation rules out of the box that validate medalled accepts an array
where the key is the input property to validate.
And the value is a collection of validation rules.
Validation rules can be a string with rules separated by the pipe character or an array of rules are
full, list of rules available is available under this link.
Now, let's ask some basic rules like minimum length.
And the maximum length.
Additional parameters to rules can be added after the column.
The required rule make sure that value for the field is provided.
It is normal to have more than one validation rule on a single property, but if you'd prefer the first
error to stop the rest of the rules for a field from running at the bail rule to the least.
Now, let's save the changes and let's see what happens when you call the validate method.
If the data was valid, actually nothing unusual happens.
The blog post gets created and this means your code continues to run.
This means you don't need to check the validate call result when something goes wrong, you know?
So how does Laravel tell you the validation failed?
That depends on how the request was sent.
When you send a form, it would redirect back to the last page, if the call is made using Ajax, Laravel
will return address on response with errors.
So let's focus on form validation first.
Apart from redirecting to the last page, Laravel will flush the errors to the session.
This means that the list of errors will be available as the errors session the variable.
There is a separate lecture about displaying form errors.